S3m app doc (#2340)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/opentelemetry/sql-server-linux-opentelemetry.md

---

> id: sql-server-linux-opentelemetry

Reviewer: @sumoanema Because you changed this file name, you'll also need to add a 301 redirect to [cid-redirects.json](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation/blob/main/cid-redirects.json). Otherwise customers (and search engines) will get a 404.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/sql.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="50"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/>

The SQL Server app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health and resource utilization of your Microsoft SQL Server database clusters. Preconfigured dashboards provide insight into cluster status, performance, operations as well as backup and restore operations.

This App has been tested with following SQL Server versions:

- Microsoft SQL Server 2012

The diagram below illustrates the components of the SQL Server collection for each database server. OpenTelemetry collector runs on the same host as SQL Server, and uses the [SQL Server receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/sqlserverreceiver) to obtain SQL Server metrics. This receiver grabs metrics about a Microsoft SQL Server instance using the Windows Performance Counters. Because of this, it is a Windows only receiver. Thus metrics for SQL Server can be collected only if its in a windows machine. 

> SQL Server logs are sent to Sumo Logic through OpenTelemetry [filelog receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver). They can be collected for any environment like - windows/linux/mac.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQL Server logs are sent to Sumo Logic through OpenTelemetry [filelog receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver) and can be collected for any environment, including Windows, Linux, and Mac.
```

-   Monitor any errors and warnings.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/SQLServer-OpenTelemetry/SQL-Server-Operations.png' alt="Operations" />

### SQL Server - Transaction and Transaction Logs

SQL Server - Transaction and Transaction Logs dashboard shows performance counters related metric for Transaction and Transaction Logs.

Use this dashboard to:

> -   Get info with respect to time for Transaction and write Transaction per sec
> -   Insight into Transaction log related metrics like flush rate, flush data rate and flush wait rate along with Transaction log % usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get info with respect to time for Transaction and write Transaction per sec
- Insight into Transaction log related metrics like flush rate, flush data rate and flush wait rate along with Transaction log % usage.
```

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/SQLServer-OpenTelemetry/SQL-Server-Transaction-And-Transaction-Logs.png' alt="Operations" />

### SQL Server - Performance Counters

SQL Server - Performance Counters dashboard shows performance counters related to database activities, SQL statistics, and buffer cache.

Use this dashboard to:

> -   Get info for Page buffer hit %, page split rate
> -   Insight into Lock waits rate, Page read and write rate along with Patch reqeust rate and SQL compilation and recompilation per sec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get info for Page buffer hit %, page split rate
- Insight into Lock waits rate, Page read and write rate along with Patch request rate and SQL compilation and recompilation per sec.
```
